README.md, before:

# transcendence
This project was developed for 42 school. For comprehensive information regarding the requirements, please consult the PDF file in the subject folder of the repository. Furthermore, we have provided our notes and a concise summary below.

```diff
+ keywords: single page application (SPA)
+ Pong game (1972)
+ Babylon.js open web rendering engine
+ ...
```

## Modules

### Web
**Major module**: Use a framework to build the backend. (*Fastify* + *Node.js*)

**Minor module**: Use a framework or a toolkit to build the frontend. (*Tailwind CSS*)

**Minor module**: Use a database for the backend. (*SQLite*)

### User Management
**Major module**: Standard user management, authentication, users across tournaments.

**Major module**: Implementing a remote authentication. (*Google Sign-in*)

### Gameplay and User Experience
**Major module**: Remote players.

### Cybersecurity
**Major module**: Implement Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) and JWT.

### Graphics
**Major module**: Use advanced 3D techniques. (*Babylon.js*)

### Accessibility
**Minor module**: Supports multiple languages.
      
## High-level Overview

```
ft_transcendence/
├── README.md                # Project documentation
├── docker-compose.yml       # Docker configuration for the entire project

├── backend/                 # Optional backend (pure PHP)
│   ├── Dockerfile           # Dockerfile for the backend
│   ├── index.php            # Entry point for the backend
│   ├── api/                 # API endpoints
│   │   ├── game.php         # Game-related API logic
│   │   ├── auth.php         # Authentication logic
│   │   └── users.php        # User management logic
│   ├── database/            # Database-related files (if using a database)
│   │   ├── schema.sql       # Database schema
│   │   └── seed.sql         # Seed data
│   ├── modules/             # Modularized backend logic
│   │   ├── Game/
│   │   │   ├── GameService.php  # Game-related business logic
│   │   │   ├── GameRepository.php # Database interactions for the game
│   │   │   └── GameValidator.php  # Validation logic for game-related requests
│   │   ├── Auth/
│   │   │   ├── AuthService.php   # Authentication logic
│   │   │   └── AuthValidator.php # Validation logic for authentication
│   │   └── Users/
│   │       ├── UserService.php   # User-related business logic
│   │       └── UserRepository.php # Database interactions for users
│   └── utils/               # Utility functions
│       └── helpers.php      # Helper functions for the backend

├── frontend/                # Frontend application
│   ├── Dockerfile           # Dockerfile for the frontend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── index.html       # Main HTML file
│   │   ├── styles/          # Tailwind CSS styles
│   │   │   ├── base.css     # Base styles (e.g., resets, typography)
│   │   │   ├── components.css # Styles for components
│   │   │   ├── pages.css    # Styles for specific pages
│   │   │   └── tailwind.css # Tailwind CSS entry point
│   │   ├── assets/          # Folder for static assets
│   │   │   ├── images/      # Images (e.g., logo, icons, backgrounds)
│   │   │   │   ├── logo.png
│   │   │   │   ├── background.jpg
│   │   │   │   └── icons/
│   │   │   │       ├── play.svg
│   │   │   │       └── pause.svg
│   │   │   └── fonts/       # Fonts (if needed)
│   │   ├── app.ts           # Main TypeScript entry point
│   │   ├── components/      # UI components
│   │   │   ├── Game/
│   │   │   │   ├── GameCanvas.ts    # Canvas rendering for the game
│   │   │   │   ├── GameControls.ts # Controls for the game (e.g., buttons)
│   │   │   │   └── GameScore.ts    # Scoreboard component
│   │   │   ├── Layout/
│   │   │   │   ├── Navbar.ts       # Navigation bar
│   │   │   │   └── Footer.ts       # Footer component
│   │   │   └── Shared/
│   │   │       ├── Button.ts       # Reusable button component
│   │   │       └── Modal.ts        # Reusable modal component
│   │   ├── pages/           # SPA pages
│   │   │   ├── Home.ts      # Home page
│   │   │   ├── Game.ts      # Game page
│   │   │   └── About.ts     # About page
│   │   ├── utils/           # Utility functions
│   │   │   ├── router.ts    # SPA router logic
│   │   │   └── navigation.ts # Navigation helpers
│   │   └── types/           # TypeScript types
│   │       └── game.d.ts    # Game-related types
│   └── package.json         # Frontend dependencies

├── shared/                  # Shared logic between frontend and backend
│   ├── gameEngine.ts        # Core game logic (physics, scoring, etc.)
│   ├── types.ts             # Shared types/interfaces
│   ├── constants.ts         # Shared constants (e.g., game settings, API URLs)
│   ├── validators.ts        # Shared validation logic
│   └── utils.ts             # Shared utility functions (e.g., date formatting)

├── security/                # Security-related files
│   ├── xss_protection.php   # XSS protection logic
│   ├── sql_injection.php    # SQL injection prevention
│   └── https_config.php     # HTTPS configuration
```
```
AppController (main application orchestrator)
│
├── BabylonCanvas (3D scene, mesh, engine, render loop)
│     └── uses GameCanvas (2D game logic & rendering)
│     └── uses BabylonGUI (menus, overlays)
│
├── GameCanvas (2D Pong game logic & rendering)
│
└── BabylonGUI (Babylon.js GUI overlays)
```

```
frontend/
└── src/
    ├── app.ts
    ├── appController.ts
    ├── game/
    │   ├── BabylonCanvas.ts
    │   ├── GameCanvas.ts
    │   ├── GameManager.ts
    │   ├── Ball.ts
    │   ├── Paddle.ts
    │   ├── GameCourtBounds.ts
    │   └── ... (other game logic)
    ├── gui/
    │   └── BabylonGUI.ts
    ├── utils/
    │   ├── gameUtils/
    │   │   ├── types.ts
    │   │   ├── CrtFragmentShader.ts
    │   │   └── ...
    │   └── ...
    ├── pages/
    │   ├── Home.ts
    │   ├── Game.ts
    │   └── About.ts
    ├── styles/
    └── assets/
```

### Build the project
```
<!-- build docker image && start container, add -d for detached mode -->
sudo docker-compose up --build frontend
<!-- FE available at http://localhost:3000 -->
```


## Concepts

| Task | Prototype | Description |
|:----|:-----:|:--------|
| **Installing dependencies** | `cat /home/ubuntu/.npm/_logs/$(ls -t /home/ubuntu/.npm/_logs/ \| head -n1)` | Check for errors in `npm log`. |
| **Bundler** | `Webpack, Vite, Parcel` | Prepares the code (JS and other assets e.g. CSS, images, etc) for the browser, ready to be loaded. Using vite as bundler, don't need to manually compile tailwind CSS or Typescript. No need of `RUN npx tailwindcss -i ./src/styles/tailwind.css -o ./src/styles/output.css` `RUN npx tsc`. Moreover, now hot reload is available and not need of `<link href="./styles/output.css" rel="stylesheet" />` in `index.html`. |
| **ES module** | `declare var BABYLON: any;` | Typescript doesn't know about BABYLON global import. Scene and Engine TS types? how to import them? Not having a bundler is really annoying (e.g. Vite: hot module replacement, instant server start, etc.) — with Vite it is possible to import Babylon as an ES module and get full TS support. |
| **Material JPG 1K** | `Ambient Occlusion(AO)` `Normal` `Specular` `Diffuse` | |
| **HDRI 2K HDR** | `` | |
| **Convert HDRI image** | [Babylon IBL tool](https://www.babylonjs.com/tools/ibl/) | After processing you should see something like an unwrapped box (environment file). |
| **Exporting Blender 3D models** | [Babylon Sandbox](https://sandbox.babylonjs.com/) | Check that location (x, y, z, set to zero), rotation (x, y, z, set to zero) and scale (x, y, z, set to one) are all normalised. If these values need to be changed, `CMD + A` `Apply all transforms`. Moreover, it is important to review the meshes naming (so it is possible to reference it properly in the code). Include selected objects, press `A` for selecting all. **VISUALISE MODEL FIRST IN BABYLON SANDBOX.** <img width="441" alt="Screenshot 2025-06-01 at 18 27 54" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cab197b8-41a5-4519-ac78-b712eaac6ba1" /> |
| **Blender basic commands** | | Create new mesh `SHIFT + A`. |
| **[Babylon Node Material Editor](https://nme.babylonjs.com/)** | | |
Z axis is pointing forward, babylon has different coordinate system than Blender
| **requestAnimationFrame** | [MDN web docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/requestAnimationFrame) | Constantly updates the scene, i.e. animations. Running two loops, one for Babylon.js and other for GameCanvas should be avoided. In Babylon render loop, call a method to update the 2D game (that acts as a dynamic texture in Babylon, applied to a plane). |
| **Prune/remove docker** | `docker system prune -af` `docker volume prune -f` | Prune unused resources. Clean unused volumes and images/containers `docker rmi` `docker rm` `docker-compose down`. |
| **node_modules** | `docker-compose exec backend ls node_modules` `docker-compose exec frontend ls -l /app/dist` | See backend/frontend `node_modules`, you can exec into the container. |
| **requestAnimationFrame** | `60Hz, 120Hz, 30Hz` | It tries to match the display's refresh rate, therefore different screens will show animations differently (if moving objects by a fixed amount per frame). Best practice: use delta time. |
| **delta time** | | Elapsed time (in seconds or milliseconds) since the last frame. Multiply all animation by delta time, so game runs at the same speed regardless of frame rate. |
| **Virtual width/height** | | |
| **Web components** | `Custom HTML Element` [webcomponents](https://www.webcomponents.org/) | Register our own HTML tags e.g. `<my-tooltip>`. Shadow dom specification, hidden away from main DOM (manage a separate DOM node tree for HTML elements, including scoped CSS styles - not affecting other builtin elements in the rest of the page). Templates and slots, add some flexible entrypoints that enables to be populated later. |
| **Web components lifecycle** | `constructor -> connectedCallback -> disconnectedCallback` | The moment the element is created is not the moment where it is attached to the DOM (created in memory first, initialisation = **constructor**... then it is attached to the DOM later = **connectedCallback**). Accessing DOM, DOM manipulation should be done there. Cleanup work = **disconnectedCallback**. Update data and DOM = **attributeChangedCallback**. |
| **Web components attributes** | `<my-button text="Hello"></my-button>` | `if (this.hasAttribute('text')) this.text = this.getAttribute('text')`. Then, `textContent` can use value set via attribute, manipulation should happen when element is mounted in DOM (connectedCallback). **HTML attributes and DOM properties CAN be connected but don't have to. They're not the same.** |
| **Light/Shadow DOM** | `this.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' })` | Styles applied to normal/light DOM shouldnt affect nested custom web component. Shadow DOM: custom element has its own DOM tree, not directly connected to real DOM (therefore, not affected by global styling). |

## Tournament Organization

![Qualifiers](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b0c453de-4333-4565-9d07-11ae357086b4)

The tournament matchmaking will work on a Qualifiers-type organization. This ensures a reasonable amount of matches and a fair distribution of match types for all participating players.

### References Game History
[Pong Game (1972)](https://www.ponggame.org/)</br>
[Pong, Computer History Museum](https://www.computerhistory.org/revolution/computer-games/16/183)</br>
[Pong - Video Game Console/TV Game Commercial 1976](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uCqIkgFKHr4)</br>
[Original Atari PONG (1972) arcade machine gameplay video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fiShX2pTz9A)</br>
[The space age pinball machine (The New York Times, 1974)](https://www.nytimes.com/1974/09/15/archives/the-space-age-pinball-machine.html)</br>
[Woolco - TV Fun Pong Game (Commercial, 1976)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6i5kZV_KOCU)</br>
[PONG - First documented Video Ping-Pong game - 1969](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XNRx5hc4gYc)</br></br>

![pong_references](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fb10b1ef-2034-45d7-99a7-49ba54800b8d)

### References Technology
[HTML5 Canvas Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EO6OkltgudE)</br>
[Babylon Documentation](https://doc.babylonjs.com/features/featuresDeepDive/importers/loadingFileTypes)</br>
[Basic Scene in BabylonJS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NLZuUtiL50A&list=PLym1B0rdkvqhuCNSXzxw6ofEkrpYI70P4&index=1)</br>
[Fun with Light Textures](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n2DLnMa21K0)</br>
[Babylon 2D controlers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dISLIZ4SdAM)</br>
[Retro CRT Shader — A post processing effect study](https://babylonjs.medium.com/retro-crt-shader-a-post-processing-effect-study-1cb3f783afbc)</br>
[Can I use](https://caniuse.com/)
### References Design
[Gufram website](https://gufram.it/)</br>
[Menu from Gufram](https://www.awwwards.com/inspiration/menu-gufram)</br>
[The Future Font](https://klim.co.nz/retail-fonts/the-future/#information)</br>
[Atari Super Pong](https://www.turbosquid.com/3d-models/atari-super-pong-1859697)</br>
[Using procedural textures with Texture Space](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UBOZF5FPx7c)</br>
[Modeling an Atari Game Controller, Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kq_H6yO2DrA)</br>
[Atari 2600 Model](https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/atari-2600-d02fe33dee524447b7dd00e7ca939cc4)</br>
[Poly Haven](https://polyhaven.com/)</br>
[Game Textures](https://gametextures.com/)</br>
[Symbl](https://symbl.cc/)</br>
[Pixel Art Icons](https://pixelarticons.com/)</br>

Commit message:

feat: FE/BE authentication, login page, add CORS to BE

README.md, after:

# transcendence
This project was developed for 42 school. For comprehensive information regarding the requirements, please consult the PDF file in the subject folder of the repository. Furthermore, we have provided our notes and a concise summary below.

```diff
+ keywords: single page application (SPA)
+ Pong game (1972)
+ Babylon.js open web rendering engine
+ ...
```

## Modules

### Web
**Major module**: Use a framework to build the backend. (*Fastify* + *Node.js*)

**Minor module**: Use a framework or a toolkit to build the frontend. (*Tailwind CSS*)

**Minor module**: Use a database for the backend. (*SQLite*)

### User Management
**Major module**: Standard user management, authentication, users across tournaments.

**Major module**: Implementing a remote authentication. (*Google Sign-in*)

### Gameplay and User Experience
**Major module**: Remote players.

### Cybersecurity
**Major module**: Implement Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) and JWT.

### Graphics
**Major module**: Use advanced 3D techniques. (*Babylon.js*)

### Accessibility
**Minor module**: Supports multiple languages.
      
## High-level Overview

```
ft_transcendence/
├── README.md                # Project documentation
├── docker-compose.yml       # Docker configuration for the entire project

├── backend/                 # Optional backend (pure PHP)
│   ├── Dockerfile           # Dockerfile for the backend
│   ├── index.php            # Entry point for the backend
│   ├── api/                 # API endpoints
│   │   ├── game.php         # Game-related API logic
│   │   ├── auth.php         # Authentication logic
│   │   └── users.php        # User management logic
│   ├── database/            # Database-related files (if using a database)
│   │   ├── schema.sql       # Database schema
│   │   └── seed.sql         # Seed data
│   ├── modules/             # Modularized backend logic
│   │   ├── Game/
│   │   │   ├── GameService.php  # Game-related business logic
│   │   │   ├── GameRepository.php # Database interactions for the game
│   │   │   └── GameValidator.php  # Validation logic for game-related requests
│   │   ├── Auth/
│   │   │   ├── AuthService.php   # Authentication logic
│   │   │   └── AuthValidator.php # Validation logic for authentication
│   │   └── Users/
│   │       ├── UserService.php   # User-related business logic
│   │       └── UserRepository.php # Database interactions for users
│   └── utils/               # Utility functions
│       └── helpers.php      # Helper functions for the backend

├── frontend/                # Frontend application
│   ├── Dockerfile           # Dockerfile for the frontend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── index.html       # Main HTML file
│   │   ├── styles/          # Tailwind CSS styles
│   │   │   ├── base.css     # Base styles (e.g., resets, typography)
│   │   │   ├── components.css # Styles for components
│   │   │   ├── pages.css    # Styles for specific pages
│   │   │   └── tailwind.css # Tailwind CSS entry point
│   │   ├── assets/          # Folder for static assets
│   │   │   ├── images/      # Images (e.g., logo, icons, backgrounds)
│   │   │   │   ├── logo.png
│   │   │   │   ├── background.jpg
│   │   │   │   └── icons/
│   │   │   │       ├── play.svg
│   │   │   │       └── pause.svg
│   │   │   └── fonts/       # Fonts (if needed)
│   │   ├── app.ts           # Main TypeScript entry point
│   │   ├── components/      # UI components
│   │   │   ├── Game/
│   │   │   │   ├── GameCanvas.ts    # Canvas rendering for the game
│   │   │   │   ├── GameControls.ts # Controls for the game (e.g., buttons)
│   │   │   │   └── GameScore.ts    # Scoreboard component
│   │   │   ├── Layout/
│   │   │   │   ├── Navbar.ts       # Navigation bar
│   │   │   │   └── Footer.ts       # Footer component
│   │   │   └── Shared/
│   │   │       ├── Button.ts       # Reusable button component
│   │   │       └── Modal.ts        # Reusable modal component
│   │   ├── pages/           # SPA pages
│   │   │   ├── Home.ts      # Home page
│   │   │   ├── Game.ts      # Game page
│   │   │   └── About.ts     # About page
│   │   ├── utils/           # Utility functions
│   │   │   ├── router.ts    # SPA router logic
│   │   │   └── navigation.ts # Navigation helpers
│   │   └── types/           # TypeScript types
│   │       └── game.d.ts    # Game-related types
│   └── package.json         # Frontend dependencies

├── shared/                  # Shared logic between frontend and backend
│   ├── gameEngine.ts        # Core game logic (physics, scoring, etc.)
│   ├── types.ts             # Shared types/interfaces
│   ├── constants.ts         # Shared constants (e.g., game settings, API URLs)
│   ├── validators.ts        # Shared validation logic
│   └── utils.ts             # Shared utility functions (e.g., date formatting)

├── security/                # Security-related files
│   ├── xss_protection.php   # XSS protection logic
│   ├── sql_injection.php    # SQL injection prevention
│   └── https_config.php     # HTTPS configuration
```
```
AppController (main application orchestrator)
│
├── BabylonCanvas (3D scene, mesh, engine, render loop)
│     └── uses GameCanvas (2D game logic & rendering)
│     └── uses BabylonGUI (menus, overlays)
│
├── GameCanvas (2D Pong game logic & rendering)
│
└── BabylonGUI (Babylon.js GUI overlays)
```

```
frontend/
└── src/
    ├── app.ts
    ├── appController.ts
    ├── game/
    │   ├── BabylonCanvas.ts
    │   ├── GameCanvas.ts
    │   ├── GameManager.ts
    │   ├── Ball.ts
    │   ├── Paddle.ts
    │   ├── GameCourtBounds.ts
    │   └── ... (other game logic)
    ├── gui/
    │   └── BabylonGUI.ts
    ├── utils/
    │   ├── gameUtils/
    │   │   ├── types.ts
    │   │   ├── CrtFragmentShader.ts
    │   │   └── ...
    │   └── ...
    ├── pages/
    │   ├── Home.ts
    │   ├── Game.ts
    │   └── About.ts
    ├── styles/
    └── assets/
```

### Build the project
```
<!-- build docker image && start container, add -d for detached mode -->
sudo docker-compose up --build frontend
<!-- FE available at http://localhost:3000 -->
```


## Concepts

| Task | Prototype | Description |
|:----|:-----:|:--------|
| **Installing dependencies** | `cat /home/ubuntu/.npm/_logs/$(ls -t /home/ubuntu/.npm/_logs/ \| head -n1)` | Check for errors in `npm log`. |
| **Bundler** | `Webpack, Vite, Parcel` | Prepares the code (JS and other assets e.g. CSS, images, etc) for the browser, ready to be loaded. Using vite as bundler, don't need to manually compile tailwind CSS or Typescript. No need of `RUN npx tailwindcss -i ./src/styles/tailwind.css -o ./src/styles/output.css` `RUN npx tsc`. Moreover, now hot reload is available and not need of `<link href="./styles/output.css" rel="stylesheet" />` in `index.html`. |
| **ES module** | `declare var BABYLON: any;` | Typescript doesn't know about BABYLON global import. Scene and Engine TS types? how to import them? Not having a bundler is really annoying (e.g. Vite: hot module replacement, instant server start, etc.) — with Vite it is possible to import Babylon as an ES module and get full TS support. |
| **Material JPG 1K** | `Ambient Occlusion(AO)` `Normal` `Specular` `Diffuse` | |
| **HDRI 2K HDR** | `` | |
| **Convert HDRI image** | [Babylon IBL tool](https://www.babylonjs.com/tools/ibl/) | After processing you should see something like an unwrapped box (environment file). |
| **Exporting Blender 3D models** | [Babylon Sandbox](https://sandbox.babylonjs.com/) | Check that location (x, y, z, set to zero), rotation (x, y, z, set to zero) and scale (x, y, z, set to one) are all normalised. If these values need to be changed, `CMD + A` `Apply all transforms`. Moreover, it is important to review the meshes naming (so it is possible to reference it properly in the code). Include selected objects, press `A` for selecting all. **VISUALISE MODEL FIRST IN BABYLON SANDBOX.** <img width="441" alt="Screenshot 2025-06-01 at 18 27 54" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cab197b8-41a5-4519-ac78-b712eaac6ba1" /> |
| **Blender basic commands** | | Create new mesh `SHIFT + A`. |
| **[Babylon Node Material Editor](https://nme.babylonjs.com/)** | | |
Z axis is pointing forward, babylon has different coordinate system than Blender
| **requestAnimationFrame** | [MDN web docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/requestAnimationFrame) | Constantly updates the scene, i.e. animations. Running two loops, one for Babylon.js and other for GameCanvas should be avoided. In Babylon render loop, call a method to update the 2D game (that acts as a dynamic texture in Babylon, applied to a plane). |
| **Prune/remove docker** | `docker system prune -af` `docker volume prune -f` | Prune unused resources. Clean unused volumes and images/containers `docker rmi` `docker rm` `docker-compose down`. |
| **node_modules** | `docker-compose exec backend ls node_modules` `docker-compose exec frontend ls -l /app/dist` | See backend/frontend `node_modules`, you can exec into the container. |
| **requestAnimationFrame** | `60Hz, 120Hz, 30Hz` | It tries to match the display's refresh rate, therefore different screens will show animations differently (if moving objects by a fixed amount per frame). Best practice: use delta time. |
| **delta time** | | Elapsed time (in seconds or milliseconds) since the last frame. Multiply all animation by delta time, so game runs at the same speed regardless of frame rate. |
| **Virtual width/height** | | |
| **Web components** | `Custom HTML Element` [webcomponents](https://www.webcomponents.org/) | Register our own HTML tags e.g. `<my-tooltip>`. Shadow dom specification, hidden away from main DOM (manage a separate DOM node tree for HTML elements, including scoped CSS styles - not affecting other builtin elements in the rest of the page). Templates and slots, add some flexible entrypoints that enables to be populated later. |
| **Web components lifecycle** | `constructor -> connectedCallback -> disconnectedCallback` | The moment the element is created is not the moment where it is attached to the DOM (created in memory first, initialisation = **constructor**... then it is attached to the DOM later = **connectedCallback**). Accessing DOM, DOM manipulation should be done there. Cleanup work = **disconnectedCallback**. Update data and DOM = **attributeChangedCallback**. |
| **Web components attributes** | `<my-button text="Hello"></my-button>` | `if (this.hasAttribute('text')) this.text = this.getAttribute('text')`. Then, `textContent` can use value set via attribute, manipulation should happen when element is mounted in DOM (connectedCallback). **HTML attributes and DOM properties CAN be connected but don't have to. They're not the same.** |
| **Light/Shadow DOM** | `this.attachShadow({ mode: 'open' })` | Styles applied to normal/light DOM shouldnt affect nested custom web component. Shadow DOM: custom element has its own DOM tree, not directly connected to real DOM (therefore, not affected by global styling). |
| **CORS support** | `npm install @fastify/cors` | Add CORS support to Fastify backend for frontend to communicate with it from a different origin (e.g. localhost:3000 to localhost:4000). |

## Tournament Organization

![Qualifiers](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b0c453de-4333-4565-9d07-11ae357086b4)

The tournament matchmaking will work on a Qualifiers-type organization. This ensures a reasonable amount of matches and a fair distribution of match types for all participating players.

### References Game History
[Pong Game (1972)](https://www.ponggame.org/)</br>
[Pong, Computer History Museum](https://www.computerhistory.org/revolution/computer-games/16/183)</br>
[Pong - Video Game Console/TV Game Commercial 1976](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uCqIkgFKHr4)</br>
[Original Atari PONG (1972) arcade machine gameplay video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fiShX2pTz9A)</br>
[The space age pinball machine (The New York Times, 1974)](https://www.nytimes.com/1974/09/15/archives/the-space-age-pinball-machine.html)</br>
[Woolco - TV Fun Pong Game (Commercial, 1976)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6i5kZV_KOCU)</br>
[PONG - First documented Video Ping-Pong game - 1969](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XNRx5hc4gYc)</br></br>

![pong_references](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fb10b1ef-2034-45d7-99a7-49ba54800b8d)

### References Technology
[HTML5 Canvas Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EO6OkltgudE)</br>
[Babylon Documentation](https://doc.babylonjs.com/features/featuresDeepDive/importers/loadingFileTypes)</br>
[Basic Scene in BabylonJS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NLZuUtiL50A&list=PLym1B0rdkvqhuCNSXzxw6ofEkrpYI70P4&index=1)</br>
[Fun with Light Textures](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n2DLnMa21K0)</br>
[Babylon 2D controlers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dISLIZ4SdAM)</br>
[Retro CRT Shader — A post processing effect study](https://babylonjs.medium.com/retro-crt-shader-a-post-processing-effect-study-1cb3f783afbc)</br>
[Can I use](https://caniuse.com/)
### References Design
[Gufram website](https://gufram.it/)</br>
[Menu from Gufram](https://www.awwwards.com/inspiration/menu-gufram)</br>
[The Future Font](https://klim.co.nz/retail-fonts/the-future/#information)</br>
[Atari Super Pong](https://www.turbosquid.com/3d-models/atari-super-pong-1859697)</br>
[Using procedural textures with Texture Space](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UBOZF5FPx7c)</br>
[Modeling an Atari Game Controller, Part 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kq_H6yO2DrA)</br>
[Atari 2600 Model](https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/atari-2600-d02fe33dee524447b7dd00e7ca939cc4)</br>
[Poly Haven](https://polyhaven.com/)</br>
[Game Textures](https://gametextures.com/)</br>
[Symbl](https://symbl.cc/)</br>
[Pixel Art Icons](https://pixelarticons.com/)</br>
